# 46755 Renewables in electricity markets - Group 5 
Explanation on the files & scripts that were used to solve and explain the results of the 1st assignment.
All the files and code consists mainly of functions and the parameters/inputs for the executable part can be found at the very end of each python file alongside instructions on how to use them. Functions from different files are imported and called when needed.

----------------------------
----------------------------
"Data.py"

Database for import, creation and edit of dataframes & dictionaries that will be used for the different steps of the assignment. Essential data sets, for each step down the line, are imported from this file. It also contains a function named 'Transmission_input' which will be used and explained into "Step_4_zonal.py" file section.

----------------------------
----------------------------
"Step_1.py"

File for clearing the market just for a single hour (Copper-plate) and deriving the market-clearing price, social welfare, profits of supliers and utility of demands. It compromises 5 different functions where:

1) Single_hour_optimization
	Given the hour, supply and demand the function returns the social walfare, generator's production schedule, demand load met and market-clearing price. Also a text file is created where KKT's conditions are writen.
2) Single_hour_plot
	Basically a plot function for showcasing the total amount of suply, demand and their cost/price participating in DA market-clearing procedure and the ones getting cleared. 
3) Commodities
	Function for showcasing social welfare (already calculated in 'Single-hour_optimization' function), and calculating profit of the suppliers and utility of demands that were cleared in the DA market.
4) Copper_plate_single_hour
	The main function in which the 3 above function are called and in respone all the desired results for the single DA market-clearing process are provided.
5) KKTs
	A function which verifies if all the KKT's equality and inequality constraints are met after the market-clearing process.

----------------------------
----------------------------
"Step_2.py"

File where the one hour Copper-plate problem is extended to a full 24-hour DA market-clearing problem. On top of the expected hourly demand and supply inputs, intertemporal constraints such as ramp rates for the conventional generators and 2 electrolyzers provided with energy from their assigned wind farm, are added in order to resemble a system closer to a real life situation. It consists of 3 'sub' functions that are used from a global function and one plot function:

1) Multiple_hour_optimization
	The function that solves the market-clearing problem by trying to maximize the social walfare during the whole 24-hour period. Inputs are matrixes with production schedules, bids and demands for 24 hours, and outputs are again time matrixes for conventional generator's and wind farm's supply schedule, demand loads met, electrolyzer's production schedule and market-clearing prices. Also a text file is created where KKT's conditions are writen.
2) Select_one_hour
	It's purpose is to extract the information out of post market-clear 24-hour matrixes, for just a single hour, to be used later.
3) Right_order
	It takes the output of 'Select_one _hour' function and rearranges them into non-decreasing supply cost and non-increasing demand price. 
4) plot_electrolyzer
	A plot function that graphically demonstrates the production schedule of the 2 electrolyzers and their resptective assigned wind farms in comparison with the hourly total demand, for the 24-hour period.
5) Copper_plate_multi_hour
	The global function that the parameters are assigned to, in continuation it calls the 3 'sub' functions of this file and the 'Single_hour_plot' imported from file "Step_1.py"

----------------------------
----------------------------
"Step_4_nodal.py"

File for clearing a DA market where the prices are based on nodal pricing system. It is basically an extension of the 24-hour market-clearing problem with inter-temporal constraints, plus constraints on the transmission line capacities (which are affected from line susceptance and voltage angles) between the connected nodes. If It consists of the following functions:

1) Nodal_optimization
    Main function that takes information on conventional generators, wind farms, demands and nodes as inputs and solves the market-clearing problem on a 24-hour basis. Outputs consist of the DA scheduled production program, demand loads met, electrolyzer's production program, voltage angles, electricity transmitted through each node and market-clearing prices. Also a text file is created where KKT's conditions are writen.
2) Nodal_prices
    A function which writes the results of the 'Nodal_optimization' function into a text file, where they can be read through and processed.
3) Sensitivity_nodal
	Basically a plot function where 'Nodal_optimization' function is used and different line capacities are tested in order to conduct a sensitivity analysis. The values can be changed inside the functiion itself, and the plot generated is specifically for the scenario that is incorporated inside the report. If more cases were to be tested, it can be done by the very end of the file by uncommenting the highlighted section.

----------------------------
----------------------------
"Step_4_zonal.py"

File for clearing a DA market where the prices are based on zonal pricing system. It is basically an extension of the 24-hour market-clearing problem with inter-temporal constraints, plus constraints on the available transmission capacities (ATCs) between the connected zones, the later consists of multiple nodes. It consists of the following functions:

0) Transmission_input
    This function was created ad the "Data.py" file and its purpose is to group multiple nodes into predetermined zones. So, the zones configuration can't be altered, but the ATCs between zones can be changed by the user. Also a text file is created where KKT's conditions are writen.
1) Zonal_optimization
    Main function that takes information on conventional generators, wind farms, demands and zones as inputs and solves the market-clearing problem on a 24-hour basis. Outputs consist of the DA scheduled production program, demand loads met, electrolyzer's production program, electricity transmitted through each zone and market-clearing prices.
2) Zonal_transmission_prices
    A function which writes the results of the 'Zonal_optimization' function into a text file, where they can be read through and processed.
3) Sensitivity_zonal
    Basically a function where 'Transmission_input', 'Zonal_optimization' and 'Nodal_prices' functions are used, and different cases of ATCs are tested in order to conduct a sensitivity analysis. The values of ATCs can be changed outside of the function.


----------------------------
----------------------------
"Step_5.py"

File for clearing the Balancing market for a single hour, disregarding the network constraints of the system. The user can decide on the hour the BM is cleared,Conventional Generators that fail, Wind Farms that have lower production than scheduled, Wind Farms that have higher production than scheduled and the percentage of Wind Farm's production deviation. It consists of 2 functions:

1) Single_hour_balancing
    This function is called inside the global function 'Balancing_market_clearing' and solves the Balancing market clearing problem for one hour. It take as input the hour of balancing, relevant information about the generators than can provide up and down regulation, and the total energy deviation from the DA schedule. Outputs consist of cost of the system, up and down regulation shcedules, and the balancing equlibrium price.
2) Balancing_market_clearing
    Main function that has as inputs all the information about generators, wind farms, demands and imbalances on the system. First solves the DA-clearing problem by calling the 'Single_hour_optimization' function from "Step_1.py" file, then formulates the dataframes needed, calls the 'Single_hour_balancing' function and eventually returns the results of Balancing Market clearing problem in a single dataframe.

----------------------------
----------------------------
"Step_6.py"

File to first clear the reserve market based on static upward and downward reserve requirments, and then consequently clear the DA market on 24-basis, taking into mind production constrains that arised for generators that participated in the reserve market. This problem has the same inputs as the problem on "Step_2.py" file, meaning standard information on supply, demand plus intertemporal constraints, but no network constraints. In the end the results of electricity markets, with and without reserve market, are compared. This file has 6 new functions:

1) Reserve_optimization
    Function that takes into account the conventional generators, that can provide reserve capacity, and the total demand. Then based on the requirments for reserve it returns the capacities reserved, both for up and down regulation, as well as their respected prices after clearing the market. Also a text file is created where KKT's conditions are writen.
2) DA_optimization
    The function that solves the market-clearing problem by trying to maximize the social walfare during the whole 24-hour period, similar to 'Multiple_hour_optimization' function on "Step_2.py" file, with extra input constrains derived from clearing the reserve market.
3) Results_reserve
    A function which writes the results of the 'Reserve_optimization' and 'DA_optimization' functions into a text file, where they can be read through and processed.
4) Plot_prices
    A plot function that graphically demonstrates the market-clearing prices of the 2 cases, meaning with or without the contribution of the reserve market.
5) Plot_SW
    A plot function that graphically demonstrates the social walfare derived from the DA market-clearing, with or without the contribution of the reserve market.
6) Benefits
    A function which takes all the relevant inputs in order to calculate the profits of conventional generators and wind farm, and then creates a text file and writes them down. This function's last input is dual parameter (0 or 1), which helps to distinquish between profits deriving from reserve and DA market.

